Next up we'll see one of my favorite new features in JavaScript async functions so async functions and
this entire section depends extremely heavily on promises.
Make sure that you are comfortable with promises and if you're not go through the previous I think two
sections ago the promises section because at their core async functions are just a nice syntactical
sugar for promises.
It's a nice clean easy syntax to work with promises but you still have to understand promises.
All right so let's start with a quick intro to the main idea behind async functions.
If we have some regular old function let's call it get data and get data makes a request using axioms
already have X yos included.
Or we could use fetch or even an X H.R. if we are a bit psycho let's do X year that get I have a U.R.L.
it doesn't matter we're not building anything with this but I'm fetching some information using axioms
in a regular function.
If I tried to control that log something afterwards let's say I wanted a variable called data and I
want to set it equal to the result of running axiom stuff.
Get this you RL and then control that log data.
What will we see when I run get data.
Okay let's try it out.
It's not going to work to give us the data all that we see is a promise.
OK so access that get returned to promise and we cancel that log.
That promise the promise was pending.
Now it's hopefully resolved but it doesn't matter we don't have access to that resolved value anyway
because we're not waiting.
We're not using dot then as we've seen with promises in order to run code when the promise is resolved.
So it would be nice if we could write code like this where we could just write one line and act as if
javascript was synchronous meaning that this code would not run until this finished.
But instead we've got to do this then as we've seen data and then we counsel dot log data so we'll see
our first council dot log of data which should print out a promise.
If I run it there we go and then we see what we get back.
So nothing new here.
Just reiterating the fact that we can't write code like this where we expect this thing to be done first.
If we have code that relies on an asynchronous operation like an axiom stat get method call.
We need to use dot then assuming it returns a promise which axioms don't get does.
Otherwise we would pass in a callback.
So this is nothing new.
This does not work but it would be nice if it did.
Right.
It's kind of obnoxious that we have to worry about callbacks and dot then and that is the entire point
of the async and await keywords.
So there are two new keywords two pieces to making this work.
Two pieces of the puzzle.
And by the end of this section you'll see how we could write a function that looks pretty much like
this with no doubt then really no explicit mention of promises or callbacks.
And the function will look like it's a synchronous function like this happens first and then as soon
as it finishes this runs.
But behind the scenes there will be promises involved and then and promises being resolved thanks to
the magic.
The syntactical sugar of a sink and a weight.
So that's the whole goal doesn't give us anything we can't already do with promises it just makes it
easier and cleaner to work with promises and create synchronous looking asynchronous code.
So let's see how it works in the next video we'll start with the async keyword.